.TH PANDOC\-RSS 1 "July 2020"
.SH NAME
pandoc\-rss \- Feed generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]pandoc\-rss\f[R] [\f[I]options\f[R]] [\f[I]input\-file\f[R]]...
.PP
\f[B]pandoc\-rss \-s\f[R] [\f[I]options\f[R]] [\f[I]input\-file\f[R]]...
\f[B]>\f[R]\f[I]feed.xml\f[R]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The
.B pandoc\-rss
utility generates an RSS feed from a series of input files.  Each
\f[I]input\-file\f[R] corresponds to a feed item, and must be written
in a markup language that can be read by Pandoc.
.PP
GNU \f[B]date\f[R](1) is used to transform dates to conform with RSS
best practices. Therefore, the date metadata of each
\f[I]input\-file\f[R] must be written in a form that will be
interpretted correctly by GNU date.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s
Produce a standalone XML file.
.IP
Without this, only item fragments are produced.
.TP
\f[B]\-t\f[R] \f[I]title\f[R]
The name of the feed.
.TP
\f[B]\-l\f[R] \f[I]link\f[R]
The URL of the web site associated with the feed.
.TP
\f[B]\-d\f[R] \f[I]description\f[R]
A short characterization or summary of the feed.
.TP
\f[B]\-n\f[] \f[I]language\f[]
The language code of the natural language in which the feed items are
written.
.IP
Without this, pandoc-rss infers the language from the LANG environment
variable.
.TP
\f[B]\-w\f[] \f[I]webmaster\@example.net\f[]
.PD 0
.TP
.PD
\f[B]\-w\f[] \[aq]\f[I]webmaster\@example.net\f[] \f[B](\f[]\f[I]Real Name\f[]\f[B])\f[]\[aq]
The e-mail address (and optionally real name) for the person to
contact about technical issues regarding the feed. Without this,
pandoc-rss will fall back on the EMAIL environment variable, if
non-empty, and the user\[cq]s GECOS field in /etc/passwd.
.TP
\f[B]\-c\f[] \f[I]copyright\f[]
Copyright statement that applies to the feed.
.TP
\f[B]\-f\f[R] [\f[I]format\f[R]|\f[B]auto\f[]|\f[B]omit\f[]]
Format or omit the guid.
Without this, default to \f[B]auto\f[] which is equivalent to a
.I format
of \[oq]%s.html\[cq].
.IP
.I format
must contain \[oq]%s\[cq] and can be an absolute URI or relative to
the channel \f[I]link\f[]. To include a literal percent sign, use
\[oq]%%\[cq].
.IP
For example, if an
.I input\-file
\[oq]foo.md\[cq] is available at
\[oq]http://example.net/blog/foo\[cq], then you should use
.B \-l http://example.net \-f blog/%s
or if it is
available at \[oq]http://blog.example.net/foo.html\[cq] you should use
\f[B]\-f http://blog.example.net/%s.html\f[].
.B 
.TP
.B \-p
Indicate that guids should not be regarded as permalinks.
.TP
.B \-o
Omit the document body for all \f[I]input-file\f[]s.
.IP
Without \f[B]-o\f[], default behaviour is to render each
.I input\-file
as HTML using Pandoc and embed it in the feed. This way, one can read
the entire document offline and from the comfort of one\[cq]s feed
reader.
.TP
.B \-h
Print a help message.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B EMAIL
The e\-mail address for the person to contact about technical issues
regarding the feed.
Can be overridden by the
.B \-w
option.
.TP
.B NAME
The real name of the person to contact about technical issues
regarding the feed.
Can be overridden by the
.B \-w
option.
.TP
.B LANG
Used to infer the natural language in which the feed items are
written.  Can be overridden by the
.B \-n
option.
.SH FILES
.TP
\f[I]$PREFIX\f[]/share/data/language\-codes
Canonical list of valid RSS language codes, assuming the pandoc\-rss
script is in \f[I]$PREFIX\f[]/bin.
.TP
/etc/passwd
Parsed in an attempt to determine the webmaster’s real name.
See \f[B]chfn\f[](1). Can be overridden by the environment variable
.B NAME
or the
.B \-w
option.
.SH SECURITY
.SS CDATA injections
.PP
The document body is embedded within a CDATA block. CDATA blocks are
vulnerable to an injection attack whereby the literal string
\f[C]]]>\f[] is included in the HTML.  Fortunately, Pandoc encodes
\f[C]]]>\f[] as \f[C]]]&gt;\f[] in HTML output to prevent this kind of
attack. You can convince yourself of this by running the following
command:
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
$\ echo\ \[aq]]]>\[aq]\ |\ pandoc
<p>]]&gt;</p>
\f[]
.fi
.SS Enclosures
.PP
These are not (yet) supported, so this is not an attack vector.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Any relative links in the body of an
.I input\-file
will become relative links in the feed and therefore render the feed
invalid.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
pandoc\-rss \-t \[aq]Example Feed\[aq] \e
           \-l http://example.net \e
           \-d \[aq]Generic RSS feed for illustrative purposes.\[aq] \e
           \-f blog/%s.html \e
    foo.md bar.md > feed.xml
\f[R]
.fi
.SH AUTHORS
Gregory Chamberlain <greg@cosine.blue>
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\f[B]pandoc\f[R](1),
\f[B]date\f[R](1),
\f[B]chfn(1)\f[R]
.PP
https://www.rssboard.org/
